Theodore Dreiser, the great American progressive writer, was born in a poor family in 1871. He began to work for his living when he was sixteen. He had a number of jobs, and at one time was a newspaper reporter. As a reporter he gained a wide experience of life, which was a great help to him when he took up novel-writing.
Dreiser's literary career started in 1900 when "Sister Carrie" was published. In this novel and also in his later works, the writer exposed the true nature of American "democracy"
Dreiser was deeply impressed by the Great October Socialist Revolution. In 1927-28 he visited the Soviet Union and from that time on was a true friend to our country. In 1945, at the age of 74, he joined the Communist Party of the USA.
Dreiser died in 1945.
The passage below comes from "The Financier" Frank Cowperwood at thirteen is shown as a boy who is already fully aware of the power of money. Later on he becomes a typical capitalist who stops at nothing to become rich and powerful.

Buttonwood Street, Philadelphia, where Frank Cowperwood spent the first ten years of his life, was a lovely place for a boy to live in. There were mainly red brick houses there with small marble steps leading up to the front doors. There were trees in the street - a lot of them. Behind each house there was a garden with trees and grass and sometimes flowers.
The Cowperwoods, father and mother, were happy with their children. Henry Cowperwood, the father of the family, started life as a bank clerk, but when Frank, his elder son, was ten, Henry Cowperwood became a teller at the bank.
As his position grew more responsible, his business connections increased. He already knew a number of rich businessmen who dealt with the bank where he worked. The brokers knew him as representing a well-known film and considered him to be a most reliable person.
Young Cowperwood took an interest in his father's progress. He was quite often allowed to come to the bank on Saturdays, when he would watch with great interest the quick exchange of bills. He wanted to know where all the different kinds of money came from, and what the men did with all the money they received. His father, pleased at his interest, was glad to explain, so that even at this early age  from ten to fifteen - the boy gained a wide knowledge of the condition of the country financially. He was also interested in stocks and bonds, and he learned that some stocks and bonds were not even worth the paper they were written on, and others were worth much more than their face value showed.
At home also he listened to considerable talk of business and financial adventure.
Frank realized that his father was too honest, too careful. He often told himself that when he grew up, he was going to be a broker, or a financier, or a banker, and do some of the risky things he so often used to hear about.
Just at this time there came to the Cowperwoods an uncle, Seneca Davis, who had not appeared in the life of the family before.
Henry Cowperwood was pleased at the arrival of this rather rich relative, for before that Seneca Davis had not taken much notice of Henry Cowperwood and his family.
This time, however, he showed much more interest in the Cowperwoods, particularly in Frank.
"How would you like to come down to Cuba and be a planter, my boy?" he asked him once.
"I am not so sure that I'd like to," replied the boy.
"Well, that's frank enough. What have you against it?"
"Nothing, except that I don't know anything about it."
"What do you know?" The boy smiled, "Not very much, I guess."
"Well, what are you interested in?"
"Money."
He looked at Frank carefully now. There was something in the boy ... no doubt of it.
"A smart boy!" he said to Henry, his brother-in-law. "You have a good family."
Uncle Seneca became a frequent visitor to the house and took an increasing interest in Frank.
"Keep in touch with me," he said to his sister one day. "When that boy gets old enough to find out what he wants to do, I think I'll help him to do it." She told him she was very grateful. He talked to Frank about his studies, and found that the boy took little interest in books or most of the subjects he had to take at school.
"I like book-keeping and mathematics," he said. "I want to get out and get to work, though. That's what I want to do."
"You're very young, my son," his uncle said. "You're only how old now? Fourteen?"
"Thirteen."
"Well, you can't leave school much before sixteen. You'll do better if you stay until seventeen or eighteen. It can't do you any harm. You won't be a boy again."
"I don't want to be a boy. I want to get to work."
"Don't go too fast, son. You'll be a man soon enough. You want to be a banker, don't you?"
"Yes. sir."
"Well, when the time comes, if everything is all right and you've behaved well and you still want to, I'll help you get a start in business. If you are going to be a banker, you must work with some good company a year or so. You'll get a good training there. And, meantime, keep your health and learn all you can."
And with these words he gave the boy a ten-dollar gold piece with which to start a bank-account.
At least 10,000 people were killed in the central
Philippine province of Leyte after Typhoon
Haiyan, one of the strongest storms ever to make
landfall, struck the Philippines in November
2013. Winds up to 315 km/h (195 mph) were
recorded during the super-typhoon which tore
roofs off buildings, knocked out electricity pylons
and turned roads into rivers full of debris.
About 70–80 per cent of the buildings in the
path of Haiyan in Leyte province were destroyed.
Tacloban, the provincial capital of Leyte, had a
population of over 200,000. The storm surge
caused seawaters to rise by above 6 m when
the typhoon hit. Power was cut and there was
no mobile phone signal, so communication was
possible only by radio.
With many provinces left without power
or telecommunications, and airports in the
hardest-hit areas, such as Tacloban, closed, it
was impossible to know the full extent of the
storm’s damage – or to provide badly needed
aid. Government gures showed that more than
4 million had been directly affected. The World
Food Programme
mobilized some
$2 million (£1.25
million) in aid and
aimed to deliver 40
tonnes of fortined
biscuits to victims
within days. The
economic cost was
estimated to be
about $15 billion.
Many countries
pledged aid to
the Philippines,
including the UK
($131 million),
Japan $53 million),
Canada ($40
million) and the
USA ($37 million).
Satellite images
showed normally
green patches of vegetation ripped up into brown
squares of debris in Tacloban, where a local TV
channel broadcast images of huge storm surges,
attened buildings and families wading through
ooded streets with their possessions held
above the water. Those living in the hardest-hit
areas, such as the eastern Visayas, were among
the poorest in the Philippines. Many had little
or no savings – so the typhoon put an already
vulnerable population at even greater risk of
future food and job insecurity.
On Bohol island, where a 7.3 magnitude
earthquake killed some 200 people in October
2013, residents were successfully evacuated
ahead of the storm. However, because the island’s
main power supply comes from neighbouring
Leyte, residents were without electricity or water.
In Tacloban, the sheer force of the storm was
too much for some evacuation centres, such as
stadiums and churches, and they collapsed.
The Philippines experiences about 20 typhoons
every year. In 2012 Typhoon Bopha killed more
than 1,100 people and caused over $1 billionworth of damage.
Oceans are the largest CO2 sink on Earth; more than 25 per cent of the
carbon dioxide that humans release into the air is absorbed into the
sea. Over geological time, more than 90 per cent of the world’s carbon
has settled in the ocean. Biological processes, such as photosynthesis,
turns carbon dioxide into organic material. Gradually, organic carbon
settles into the deep ocean. The upper ocean therefore has a lower
concentrations of carbon than the deep ocean. If carbon on the ocean
oor was lifted to the surface (as in a thermohaline circulation) the
ocean could become a source of CO2 rather than a sink.
During cold glacial phases atmospheric CO2
levels may have decreased to
around 180 ppmv (parts per million by volume), and it is thought that
much of this was stored in the oceans. In contrast, in the warm
interglacials, CO2
is released from the oceans, and atmospheric CO2
levels may have been around 280 ppmv. Current CO2
levels are around
400 ppm, indicating a substantial warming.
The major reservoirs of carbon dioxide are fossil fuels (10,000 × 10
12
kg
of carbon), the atmosphere (750 × 10
12
kg of carbon) and the oceans
(38,000 × 10
12
kg of carbon). Oceans play a key role in the carbon cycle.
Photosynthesis by plankton generates organic compounds of carbon
dioxide. Some of this material passes through the food chain and sinks
to the ocean door where it decomposes into sediments. Eventually it is
destroyed at subduction zones where ocean crusts are subducted beneath
the continental plates. Carbon dioxide is later released during volcanic
activity. The transfer of carbon dioxide from ocean to atmosphere
happens over a very long timescale.
Up to half of the carbon dioxide released by burning fossil fuels
since the early 1880s has been absorbed by oceans. Absorbed CO2 in
seawater forms carbonic acid, which lowers the water’s pH and makes it
more acidic.
Acidity is measured on the pH scale.
Freshwater has a pH reading of 7.
Surface seawater had a reading of
8.2 a century ago, but now this
has dropped to 8.1 because of the
amount of carbon dioxide that has
been absorbed by oceans. Although
this may seem like a relatively small
change, the pH scale is logarithmic,
and so a 0.1 difference actually
represents an increase in acidity
of 30 per cent. By 2100, the pH of
surface seawater could have dropped
to 7.8, which represents an increase
in acidity of about 150 per cent.
The oceans are thought to have
absorbed about 50 per cent of the
extra CO2 put into the atmosphere
in the industrial age. This has
lowered its pH by 0.1. Seawater is
mildly alkaline with a “natural” pH
of about 8.2. However, the IPCC
(Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) forecasts that ocean pH
will fall by between 0.14 and 0.35 units during the 21st century, adding
to the present decrease of 0.1 units since pre-industrial times.
The cause of ocean acidication is believed to be anthropogenic (manmade) sources – such as carbon emissions from industrial plants,
power stations, cars and planes. Many species are now threatened with
extinction, sheries face eradication, and coral reefs that protect coastal
areas are starting to erode.
Some of the carbon that mankind emits remains in the atmosphere
and causes it to heat up, driving global warming. However, about
30 per cent of carbon dioxide is absorbed by
the oceans where it turns to carbonic acid.
More acidic oceans are beginning to kill off
coral reefs and shellsh beds and threaten
stocks of sh. Increasing ocean acidication
will reduce calcication in corals and other
calcifying organisms, resulting in slower
growth and weaker skeletons
Scientists estimate that oceans absorb around
a million tonnes of carbon dioxide every
hour. As a result, they are now 30 per cent
more acidic than they were last century.
This increased acidity disrupts reproductive
activity and adversely affects calcium
carbonate, which forms the shells and
A spit is a beach of sand or
shingle linked at one end to
land. It is found on indented
coastlines or at river mouths.
For example, along a coast
where headlands and bays are
common and near mouths
(estuaries and rias), wave
energy is reduced. Excellent
examples include Cape Cod
(Photo B.3). Spits generally
have a thin, attached end
(the proximal end) and a
larger, distal end with smaller
recurves (Figure B.26).
Spits often become curved as
waves undergo refraction. Cross-currents or
occasional storm waves may assist this hooked
formation. A good example is the sand spit in
Walvis Bay, Namibia. The main body of the
spit is curved, but it has additional smaller
hooks, or recurves. Longshore drift moves
sediment northwards along the coast. However,
the coastline is very irregular and there is a
sudden change in the trend of the coastline.
Consequently, refraction occurs, causing the
waves to bend around eastwards.
On the seaward side, the slope to deeper water
is very steep. Within the curve of the spit, the
water is shallow and a considerable area of
mudat and salt marsh is exposed at low water.
These salt marshes are continuing to grow as
mud is being trapped by the marsh vegetation.
Initially, sand is moved by the wind. However, wind speed varies with
height above a surface. The belt of no wind is only 1 mm above the
surface. As most grains protrude above this height, they are moved by
saltation. The strength of the wind and the nature of the surface are
important. Irregularities cause increased wind speed and eddying, and
more material is moved. On the leeward side of irregularities, wind
speed is lower, transport decreases and deposition increases.
For dunes to become stable, vegetation is required. Plant succession and
vegetation succession can be interpreted by the fact that the oldest dunes
are furthest from the sea and the youngest ones are closest to the shore.
On the shore, conditions are windy, arid and salty. The soil contains
few nutrients and is mostly sand – hence the dunes nearest the shore
are referred to as “yellow dunes”. Few plants can survive, although sea
couch and marram can tolerate these conditions.
Once the vegetation is established, it reduces wind speed close to ground
level. The belt of no wind may increase to a height of 10 mm. As grasses
such as sea couch and marram need to be buried by fresh sand in order
to grow, they keep pace with deposition. As the marram grows, it traps
more sand. As it is covered it grows more, and so on.
Once established, the dunes should continue to grow as long as there is a
supply of sand. However, once another younger dune, a fore dune, becomes
established, the supply of sand – and so the growth of the dune – is reduced.
As the dune gets higher, the supply of fresh sand is reduced to dunes further
back. Thus marram dies out. In addition, as wind speeds are reduced,
evapotranspiration losses are less and the soil is
moister. The decaying marram adds some nutrients
to the soil, which in turn becomes more acidic.
In the slacks, the low points between the dunes,
conditions are noticeably moister, and marsh
vegetation may occur. Towards the rear of the
dune system “grey” dunes are formed – grey due
to the presence of humus in the soil. The climax
vegetation found here depends largely on the
nature of the sand. If there is a high proportion of
shells (providing calcium), grasslands are found.
By contrast, acid dunes are found on old dunes
where the calcium has been leached out, and
on dunes based on outwash sands and gravels.
Here, acid-loving plants such as heather and ling
dominate. Pine trees favour acid soils, whereas
oak can be found on more neutral soils. Thus the
vegetation at the rear of the sand-dune complex
is quite variable.
Soufrire is located on the central west coast of the Caribbean island of
St Lucia. It is bordered by a narrow submarine shelf which supports the
island’s most diverse and productive reefs. Traditionally, agriculture and
shing have provided two main sources of employment and income.
However, due to the increased focus on development of the tourism
industry, shermen (the traditional users of the area) found themselves
competing on a daily basis with a variety of tourism-related users.
Past efforts at managing conicting stakeholders or users generally took
a top-down approach in that rules and regulations were established with
little or no public awareness, education and/or consultation. In St Lucia,
a small island with limited nancial capacity, the required enforcement
capabilities were often severely lacking. The establishment of the
Soufrire Marine Management Area (SMMA) in 1995 led to the success
of its stewardship approach to management of resources within the area.
The Soufrire Marine Management Association is a self-sustained
not-for-prot NGO authorized by the Government of St Lucia to
manage the SMMA. Mandated to conserve and protect the natural
marine environment, the association also ensures sustainable use
and development of the area, particularly within the shing and
tourism sectors.
The SMMA consists of 11 km of coastline and is divided into ve
different zones (Figure B.29): marine reserves, shing priority areas,
yacht mooring areas, recreational areas and multiple-use areas. These
areas were designed to cater to the multitude of uses in the area, reduce
conict among users and protect critical marine resources. From the
experience of the SMMA, management authorities have learned that
community participation at all stages of the process is vital for the
success of resource management.
The importance of beaches for coastal stability has long been recognized.
Many beaches along the east coast have become prime target sites for
illegal sand-mining activities since they are often located in remote areas,
making surveillance activities difcult. On the east coast nearly
15 per cent of beaches were being mined for sand, compared with
6.5 per cent of beaches along the west coast.
Other problems, which affect beaches in general, include solid
waste from both land- and water-based sources, and construction of
infrastructure on the beach or in the nearshore area, which in turn
affects the natural dynamics of the beach. In addition to destructive
human practices, natural disasters also adversely impact beaches.
Hurricanes are a major natural force controlling beach change.
Research has shown that coastal stewardship is successful when
there is a clear benet to be derived by those involved. If there are
no perceivable benets, as has been the case with beach-monitoring
activities, such actions are often given low priority.
During the 1980s resource use conicts in the area increased dramatically
as a result of the expansion of the tourism sector, technological changes
in the shing industry, and an increase in
negative impacts from land-based activities,
notably agriculture, industry and construction.
These conicts manifested themselves in
increased competition between seine shers and
yachters regarding the use of shing areas, and
disputes between pot shers and recreational
divers in respect of the use of reefs.
The SMMA provided a new zoning plan (shing
priority areas, marine reserves and multipleuse areas), a range of management measures
(user fees, incentives and so on) and a new
institutional arrangement. However, by 1996
it was clear that there were difculties in the
implementation of the SMMA. In 1997 the
SMMA began a thorough review process, which
involved all relevant stakeholders.
Overshing, tourism and pollution are short-term pressures on coral
reefs, whereas growing levels of greenhouse gases are a longer-term
problem, causing oceanic acidication and warming oceans, both
of which lead to coral bleaching. There have only been three global
occurrences of coral bleaching. The rst coincided with El Nino in
1997–98 and killed off about 16 per cent of corals. The second was in
2010. The third, which began in 2015 may have affected 38 per cent of
the world’s corals.
The richest reefs are in the “coral triangle” in South East Asia (Figure B.31).
This area of 86,500 km2
contains two-thirds of the world’s coral species
and more than 3,000 species of reef sh – twice as many as are found
anywhere else.
The World Resources Institute estimates that about 60 per cent of reefs
face immediate threats. In the 50 years to 2016, about a quarter of all coral
cover has died. The reefs that are in worst shape are those off the most
popular beaches where suncream gets into the water. In addition, fertilizer
run-off from farms leads to algal blooms, which block the light that the
corals need. Fishing close to reefs reduces the number of herbivorous
sh, allowing vegetation to grow out of control. Some shing methods
are particularly harmful. For example, blast shermen in Colombia and
Tanzania use dynamite to stun and kill sh without regard to the harm
done to reefs. In the South China Sea, island building and shing for giant
clams are changing some reefs beyond the possibility of recovery.
The problems vary spatially, hence policies must be adapted locally. The
three countries with the largest number of people who sh on reefs are
all in the coral-triangle region: Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and the
Philippines. In Indonesia and in the Philippines, up to 1 million people’s
livelihoods depend on reefs. Trying to get all of these people on board
with conservation measures will
prove difcult.
One approach is to give
ecologically sensitive areas special
status, such as marine protected
areas (MPAs). In theory, activities
that are deemed harmful, such
as shing, drilling and mining,
can then be restricted or banned,
with penalties for rule-breakers.
The Aichi Targets, agreed in
2010 under the UN Convention
on Biological Diversity, seek
to have at least 17 per cent of
inland water and 10 per cent
of coastal and marine areas
under conservation by 2020.
Most countries have signed up.
However, less than 3 per cent of
the ocean’s surface is within an
MPA.
The most urgent action is regarding shing vessels. A global register
of shing vessels would help to identify wrongdoers. Moreover, simply
declaring an area protected does not necessarily safeguard it. In 2009
George W. Bush, then president of the USA, established three national
marine monuments in the Pacic, including nearly 518,000 km2
of coral
islands and surrounding areas. Their remoteness makes it hard to stop
vessels entering illegally; Hawaii’s coastguard is already stretched. Satellites
are sometimes used to police MPAs. In the future, sailing robots could play
a larger role. The USA’s National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) has been working with a private rm, Saildrone, on drones that
could roam remote ocean regions for months. They each cost around
$500, making them far cheaper than manned boats. Such drones could
photograph rogue shing vessels as well as monitoring ocean temperature
and acidity or tracking endangered species that have been tagged.
In poor countries, low-tech methods of surveillance are needed. Just
0.09 per cent of Malaysia’s territorial waters, and those within its exclusive
economic zone, are protected by an MPA. However, a national programme
requires shermen to paint their vessels according to how far out they
have permission to sh within the nearshore area. Other shermen can
then spot when a rogue vessel has strayed. In Barbados, a pilot project
charges visitors to enter a coastal MPA.
Mangroves provide humans with many ecological services. These include
products such as fuelwood, charcoal, timber, thatching materials, dyes,
poisons, and food such as shellsh and crustaceans. Many sh species,
both commercially farmed and farmed for subsistence, use mangrove
swamps and seagrass beds as nurseries. In addition, mangrove trees
provide protection from tropical storms and act as sediment traps.
Nevertheless, over-exploitation of mangroves has led to signicant declines
in their extent in recent decades. In Indonesia, over 2,000 km2
of mangroves
produce 250,000 of woodchip each year, and in Sabah, over 40 per cent of
the total mangrove area was set aside for woodchip production. In many
parts of South East Asia mangrove forests have been removed to make way
for aquaculture ponds for prawns, crabs and other sh. In other areas, such
as Singapore, mangroves have been removed to allow urban expansion.
Rapid coastal development is squeezing mangrove forests. Urban
population growth is exceeding the expansion of waste-treatment facilities,
and some coastal areas are becoming heavily polluted.
Rapid population growth and the destruction of mangrove and seagrass
beds has prompted the development of Integrated Coastal Zone
Management (ICZM) techniques. Conicts between human users of
mangrove forests and conservationists, and sustainable use of mangroves
requires careful planning.
Attempts to protect mangroves date back to 1760 when King Jos of
Portugal ensured that mangrove trees could not be cut for other uses
unless its bark was used for its tannins – so fuelwood was obtained from
less valuable species. Intensive management of mangroves has occurred
in the Sundarbans of Bangladesh and India since 1759 and in the
Metang of Malaysia since 1902. In most cases, sustainable silviculture
occurs on a 30–year cycle of planting and harvesting.